Is it even still possible to go viral on
Instagram? As someone who has gotten
more than 10 million views on Instagram
in the last 30 days, let me be the first
to tell you, yes, it absolutely still is
possible. But it is definitely more
challenging now than ever before. And
that's exactly why in today's episode,
I'm going to be sharing with you five
viral Instagram reel ideas that are easy
to make. For each of these ideas, I'm
going to give you a few examples as
well, so that hopefully you can figure
out a way to make these ideas fit for
your niche and
industry. Before we even get into those
ideas, I think it's important to start
with some tips, some things to do and
not do in order to help the odds or the
chances of yourself going viral. And I
say odds or chances because at the end
of the day, yes, going viral kind of is
like winning the lottery. And if you
wanted to increase your odds of winning
the lottery, you would buy more lottery
tickets, right? Well, the same is true
on Instagram. The same is true on social
media. If you want to increase the odds
of going viral, you should post more
often. Now, when I say post more often,
I don't mean just throwing random
spaghetti against the wall and seeing
what sticks. I mean posting more of what
is strategically proven to go viral.
posting more of the kinds of content
that time and time again gets the most
views, the most likes, the most
comments, and the most shares. I'm also
a big proponent of increasing your
frequency because studies have shown
that the more you post, the more you
grow. To say it another way, if you post
more frequently, on average, your number
of followers will increase faster than
if you post less often. And most
importantly of all, I'm a firm believer
that the way to create high quality
content, which is ultimately all of our
goals, we want to make good posts, high
quality reels, so they get more views
and that those views turn into followers
or customers. The way that is done is
through practice. To say it another way,
quantity breeds quality. Quality comes
from quantity. Yes, the more you post,
the more you grow. But more importantly,
the more you post, the more you learn,
the more at bats or practices you have,
the more attempts you have at improving
your skill set, at improving your
knowledge, your editing capabilities,
and your overall content, which in the
long run will pay off in more consistent
and sustainable views. Now, with that
being said, three quick tips to help you
go viral. Number one, look outside of
your niche. I got to recently have a
conversation with the head of Instagram
for business. not Adam Ozeri, the head
of Instagram, but the head of Instagram
for business. And one of the hot takes
that he shared with me is that you
shouldn't look at your competition or do
competitor analysis. And I totally
agreed because here's the thing. If
you're looking at what other people who
are in your same industry or who are in
your same field are doing and you are
just recreating what's working for them,
it's already been done in your space.
And at best, you're going to be a copy.
at best you are going to be second place
behind that person who made the original
piece of content. So my recommendation
for you is to look in other verticals,
other industries, look even on other
platforms like Tik Tok or Facebook or
YouTube shorts to get inspiration for
your Instagram reels. If you see
something is trending, something is
becoming popular, or you just see a
single video that really grabs your
attention and you notice that it has
millions of views, try to recreate that
video, but apply it to your own niche.
Success leaves clues. So, when you find
a great video, one that grabs your
attention or is going viral, I want you
to study it. I want you to analyze, what
was it that made you stop your scroll?
What was it that made you want to
engage? What was it that made you want
to click on this video in the first
place? When you start to pay attention
to those things, you move yourself from
a place of unconscious, mindless
consumption, just scrolling endlessly,
the doom scroll as they call it, into a
place of conscious consumption. And I
believe that if you want to be an
excellent content creator, if you want
to be the kind of business owner who's
making social media posts that actually
drive results, then you need to
constantly be in a place of conscious
consumption where you are analyzing the
videos that you're watching rather than
just passively consuming them. This is
something that I do all the time. For
example, this post that says, "It took
Mr. Beast 100 videos to hit 1K
subscribers on YouTube. It took Mel
Robbins 3 to 400 post to hit 1k
followers on Instagram. And it took
Brock Johnson nine years to have his
first viral reel that was born out of
inspiration from another industry. I
believe it was some basketball account
that I followed that talked about how
many misses Kobe Bryant had in his
career and how many games Michael Jordan
had lost in his career. And it was using
that to illustrate that even the people
who we look up to have failures. They
have mistakes. they have losses, so to
speak, or even quite literally. And so,
I took that inspiration from a
basketball account and applied it to my
niche of growing on social media.
Another example is this reel right here
that says, "Me jealous of you? Please, I
get as many views in a month as you do
in 4 weeks." First of all, it's kind of
funny because a month is four weeks. So,
basically, you're saying these things
are equal. It's kind of like making
yourself look silly. But the inspiration
from this was actually taken from
someone who was in the finance niche.
They were in like the wealth motivation
niche and they basically said, "Me,
jealous of you, please. I make as much
money in a month as you do in 4 weeks."
So again, I'm taking things from other
industries and I'm applying them to my
own industry or niche, thus making it an
original idea in my space, but it's an
idea that's already proven to do well in
another space. And these are kind of
just free bonus ideas. We haven't even
gotten into my five main viral ideas for
today, but if you want to remake either
of those two reels or remake any of the
reels that I show you today, please by
all means be my guest, do so. Tip number
two for going viral on Instagram also
relates to this idea that success leaves
clues and it is to use a strategy that I
call upycling. Upycling essentially
means reposting or recreating your own
posts every 60 to 90 days. Basically,
once two to three months has gone by or
more, look back at what content has
performed well for you. And however you
define doing well is totally up to you.
In the Insta Club, we like to use a term
called VFM, which stands for viral for
me. Essentially, you're looking for
content that outperforms your average
rather than content that reaches 10
million people and considering it a
failure if it doesn't reach 10 million
people. Instead, figure out what your
general average is. how many views do
you usually get and then see if there's
a specific video that far outperforms
that. That would be VFM. But
essentially, the strategy of upycling is
just taking your VFM content that's at
least 2 or 3 months old and either
directly reposting it. So, taking it and
just posting it a second time, same
audio, same caption, same everything. If
it worked a few months ago, it's
probably going to work well now. or
taking that post from a few months ago
and tweaking it, maybe modifying it,
maybe updating it, changing the caption
or the audio a little bit. Maybe there's
something that's outdated now, or maybe
there's a new version of the trend that
you want to do. Just basically taking
the same idea and posting it a second
time. This is what I do for 75% of my
content. I often get asked, "Brock, how
are you able to make so many posts? How
are you able to create so much content?"
And the reality is, I'm not making new
posts. I'm not making new content. I'm
just constantly upycling posts from the
past. Now, some tips to go along with
this tip. You should be saving all of
your content into your camera roll or
even better into some sort of cloud
storage like Dropbox or Google Drive so
that when you do want to repost your
content in the future, you already have
it saved. But if you haven't been doing
that, a make sure you're doing that from
now on. And b, if you do have a reel
that let's say you posted it 3 months
ago and you want to post it again,
you're going to have to save it to your
device first. And the best way that I
have found to do that is by using a
website called
saveclipip.app. Yes, it is a website. I
know it's confusing because it ends
inapp, but s a ve
liaveclipip.app is the app that I use
and generally recommend. And no, this is
not sponsored. It's a free website, a
free tool that allows you to basically
paste in the link to any reel and then
download it to your device so that you
can post it a second time. The final
thing that I'll say about this tip
before we move on to my third tip for
going viral is people often ask, "Well,
Brock, what about the people who saw it
the first time? First of all, remember
that about 90%, if not more, of your
followers didn't see it the first time.
Most people didn't even see it. Even if
it went viral, even if it did reach 10
million people, most of your followers
probably didn't see it the first time.
And number two, the ones who did see it,
most of them do not remember. We on
average see about 10,000 posts a day
according to a few recent studies. And
so no, if someone's seeing 10,000 posts
a day and you made this post 3 months
ago, they probably don't remember it.
Now, of course, there is a small section
of your audience who not only saw the
post, but remembers the post. And those
people likely remember the post because
it was that good. It was like your
favorite episode of your favorite TV
show. You wouldn't mind if the rerun was
on TV. you wouldn't mind watching it a
second time because it was that good.
It's the reason that so many of us are
always re-watching our favorite movies.
If it's that good, we wouldn't mind
seeing it again. So, upcycle your
content every 60 to 90 days. And you
would be surprised how many times a post
does well the first time, pretty well
the second time, it does well the third
time, and the fourth time I post it, it
goes mega viral. You just are never
sure. There are so many different
factors that might be at play. So, if
you have a post that is outperforming
the rest, make sure that you're reusing
that post or at least that idea every
couple months. And then my third tip to
help you go viral is to focus on
creating shareworthy content.
Shareworthy content, of course, is the
kind of post that is worthy of being
shared. The kind of thing that when
someone sees it, they want to send it to
a friend, they want to send it to their
colleague, they want to send it to their
group chat, they want to share it to
their stories. Posts that get shares on
average get more views than posts that
get an equal amount of likes, comments,
or saves. To say it another way, shares
are the best form of engagement on
Instagram if you want more views. Now,
the purpose of today's episode is going
viral and giving you ideas for doing
that. And I'm going to do that in just a
second. But if you want more ideas as to
what is shareworthy content and how do
you come up with shareworthy content,
I'll link up a video up here or down in
the show notes so that you can check out
a past episode of Build Your Tribe that
we have done about shareworthy content.
Now, okay, three things that I need you
to not worry about because they don't
really impact your chances of going
viral and then I will give you the five
viral real ideas. The first thing to
absolutely not worry about is branding.
Oftentimes, us small business owners get
caught up in our brand fonts and colors
and voice and we over complicate or
overthink our reels. We overedit them
and try to curate them, making them
absolutely perfect. So, my tip for you
is to just press post. Think about the
most viral reels that you see. They're
usually not heavy on the branding
because the more branding and editing
and polishing and refining that you do,
the more your reels will feel like an
advertisement that's overproduced rather
than a sensational short form video that
is likely to go viral. The second thing
that you should not worry about is
hashtags. Hashtags are something that I
cannot talk about enough and they are
something that Adam Moseri, the head of
Instagram, in our interview that we did
a few weeks ago on this podcast, which
by the way, if you haven't listened to
that already, highly recommend doing it.
what he said is no, they do not reliably
increase your reach. The purpose of
hashtags is not to help you get more
views, so don't worry about hashtags.
And then the third and final thing that
you should not worry about is the
specific time that you're posting. Yes,
certain times may be better than others,
but generally speaking, there's not a
single best time to post on Instagram,
and I would rather have you post at the
wrong time than not post at all.
Ultimately, if your content is that
good, if it is worthy of going viral, it
will get pushed out to the right people
at the right time. So, don't stress so
much over the exact time of posting. All
righty. With all of that being said, you
clicked on this video to get five viral
Instagram reel ideas. So, let's get into
those five ideas now. Number one is what
I call the hook swap strategy, also
known as transitional hooks. Before I
explain to you what exactly this is,
it's important to understand that the
hook is the most important part of your
video. Those first three or four seconds
are crucial if you want someone to watch
the rest of your video. Oftentimes, we
spend so much time, energy, and effort
improving second three through whenever
your video ends, and we kind of just
leave the hook as an afterthought. But
the reality is, ain't nobody watching
second four through whatever if second
one through three isn't super engaging.
So, I recommend spending the majority of
your time, energy, and effort on
improving your hooks. Down in the show
notes below, I'll make sure to link up
our free 25 viral hook idea, so you can
download those and easily add them into
your reels. But this specific viral reel
idea is to use, like I said,
transitional hooks. Transitional hooks
are short videos that are super
captivating. Maybe it's a gorilla doing
a twirl. Maybe it's someone fouling a
baseball and the ball is coming right at
the camera. Maybe it's someone
performing some crazy stunt.
Essentially, the first 3 seconds of the
video are just meant to grab people's
attention, hook them in, and then you
seamlessly transition into the second
part of the video. So, the first few
seconds are not you, and then it
transitions into you. Now, some tips for
these transitional hooks is number one,
you can use a website transitional
hooks.com, and it just has a massive
library of these short little clips. You
can download them and then add them to
your videos. Or what I like to do is
just as I'm scrolling through social
media, remember success leaves clues,
and if I see one of these transitional
hooks out in the real world, I will just
download that person's video again using
saveclipip.app. And then I'll trim off
their second part of the video so that I
just have the hook and then I'll add on
my own second part of the video. And
then my second tip for these
transitional hooks is to use what's
called a match cut. A match cut is a
term from film and TV that essentially
means something that is taking place in
the first scene is going to match like
it's going to be the same shape as in
the second scene. For example, if in the
first scene the transitional hook
there's a gorilla who is spinning, the
second scene should begin with you also
spinning kind of at like the same
distance away from the camera. The match
cut is the most important key element
for making sure that your transitional
hooks are effective and engaging and
also so that they seamlessly transition
from the engaging hook into whatever
your second part of the video is. Now,
of course, you don't have to just use
these viral transition hooks and these
pre-made videos. You can also create
your own. Although, I will say that this
is more challenging than finding a video
that's already proven to go viral. But
one awesome example was done by this
musician called Citizen the Artist. And
they did this super cool reel.
Essentially, they made the first few
seconds of the video look like it was
like this behind the scenes in real life
caught on camera moment. They have like
the Snapchat text on the screen. The
guy's shoelace is caught in the car door
and then as the car drives away, it kind
of drags him along with it. And as you
can see, there is a match cut where as
he's falling to the ground, suddenly
there's a cut and we're looking right at
him being drugged on the ground while
he's singing his song. So, it's a great
way to hook people in and then get them
to listen to the rest of the video. My
second viral Instagram reel idea for you
also relates to the hook. And this one
is to create your own tension building
hook. And really, this hook is something
that's going to prolong through the
video by building suspense. And I have
three specific examples for you. Number
one is going to require you to get about
100 ft of rope. And just stick with me
for a second. You're going to cut maybe
a 6 to 10 ft segment of the rope and tie
it around your neck or tie it around
your body. And then tie the rest of the
rope, the remaining 90 ft or so to the
back of a car. Now, I'm going to warn
you that this one could actually
literally be a little bit difficult. So,
I do not advise you to try this reel,
but I do want to give it to you as an
example. If you are going to try this,
it is at your own risk. So, please take
every safety precaution necessary. But
essentially, like I said, you tie the
small segment of the rope around your
body or around your neck or maybe even
around a chair that you're going to be
sitting in. And then you tie the longer
segment of the rope to the back of the
car. You have yourself standing right at
the back of the car or sitting right at
the back of the car. And then you have
the car drive away. As the car is
driving away, the coiled up rope will
quickly unravel and people who are
watching are going to think, "Oh my
gosh, is this rope going to yank the
person back? Are you going to be drugged
behind the car?" And so it builds
suspense and tension. Of course, the
ropes are separated so you don't
actually get yanked. But it does keep
people watching for the entirety of the
video because they are nervous that
something is going to happen. I've done
a version of this myself. I've seen
musicians do this. I've seen people in
pretty much every vertical do this. And
it's such a powerful way to hold
people's attention, but just make sure
that you're safe if you are going to do
this. The second tension building hook
also could be kind of dangerous, but I
want you to take every precaution if you
are going to do this. Again, legally, I
am not recommending that you try this
hook. If you are going to do it, it is
at your own risk. But the second example
of this tensionbuilding hook is to film
yourself standing in the middle of the
road talking about whatever it is that
you want to talk about, sharing some
tips, telling a story, whatever. Just do
your normal talking head reel, standing
in the middle of the road. That's the
first thing you need to record. Then
record a second video of cars driving by
on the road. Essentially, what you're
going to do is in editing, in cap cut,
green screen and cut out yourself in the
first clip and put it on top of the
second clip. Then when you play the two
clips together, it's going to look like
the car is going to hit you. It's going
to hit you. It's going to hit you. And
then at the last second, there's kind of
this weird moment where people can
suddenly realize that you're green
screened onto the video and the bus or
the car or whatever isn't actually going
to hit you. Again, take every precaution
and safety measure necessary if you are
going to try this hook strategy and do
it at your own risk. I've also seen
someone do this at a train station and I
thought it was really cool to see the
way they did this on the train tracks
and again it made for a super engaging
tension building hook and it went viral.
The third tension building hook is the
least dangerous of the three but again
do it at your own risk and it's what's
called the hit by a box hook.
Essentially, in your first clip, you're
going to be walking into the scene or
maybe walking through the scene, and
someone who's closer to the camera is
going to throw a ball or a box or
they're going to throw something at your
head. Then, you're going to cut right
before it hits you in the head, and it's
going to cut to a close-up of you
talking to the camera. Usually, the
first sentence after this cut, the first
sentence in the second clip is something
like, "You were waiting for the box to
hit me, weren't you?" Or, "You thought
that box was going to hit me." And then
you can go into your talking head reel,
your story, again, what you actually
wanted the reel to be about. Now, I will
say there have been some people recently
who have been putting their own spin on
this trend where it cuts to the second
clip where they start to say, "You
thought that box was going to hit me."
And then the box does hit them. And then
they keep getting pelted with boxes
throughout the video. It can be funny.
It can be something that's like an anti-
trend, which we're going to talk about
in just a little bit. But again, all
three of these viral reel ideas involve
building tension or suspense throughout
the reel that's going to keep people
watching past those first few seconds.
All right, viral reel idea number three
is to recreate a trend. But stick with
me for just a second because recreating
a trend is like the most basic simple
way to go viral ever. Yes, if you can
capitalize on a trend early on, a trend
that's rising in popularity before it's
become oversaturated, which by the way,
once the big brands start using the
trend, that's usually when it's become
oversaturated. But if you can use it
early, if you can use it when it's still
rising in popularity, you can have
success. Of course, what's trending is
always changing. And so, if I were to
give you an example right now of what's
trending at the time I'm recording this,
it would probably be outdated by the
time you watch it. But here's the tip
that I am going to give you. When
something is trending, when something is
starting to gain popularity and blow up,
what I would recommend doing is create
as many different versions of that trend
as possible. Now, ideally, you would use
trial reels to do this. The amazing
thing about trial reels is that they
will not spam or overwhelm your existing
followers. So you could create 17
different versions of the same trend
with just slightly different videos or
slightly different captions, slightly
different text on the screen and see if
one of them starts to pop off. Now, if
you want to know what trial reels are,
we did an entire video about them. I did
a full tutorial on how to use trial
reels and the benefits of them. But I'm
a big fan of posting as many trial reels
as you can. And so if something is
trending, if something is popping off,
if something is starting to blow up, you
might as well post as many different
trial reels as you can think of that are
different versions of that trend. And if
one of those starts to do well, you can
upgrade it to a normal reel and soak up
all the virality. Viral reel idea number
four is what's called the hideandsek
trend. This one was originally created
by a real estate agent who did a super
creative reel where instead of just
giving you some boring old house tour,
she told you that she was going to play
hide and seek in the house. And then
each different scene, you got to see
each room of the house, you got to see
the kitchen, the living room, the
bedrooms, and she was hiding in
different areas. And while she was
hiding, she was talking to you on the
mic. So you could hear her voice, but
you wouldn't see her. You would expect
her to be hiding behind the kitchen
island and then she would be hiding
behind some chair over on the other
side. You'd expect her to be hiding
underneath the bed and she was actually
in the closet. It was a really
interesting and engaging reel. And I
think a viral real idea that you could
do is again relates to the idea of
success leaving clues. So take this
viral real idea of playing hide-and-seek
and apply it to your own industry. If
you're a fitness coach, play
hide-and-seek around the gym. What if
there were people doing exercises and
there was like a wide shot of a bunch of
people doing different exercises in the
gym and then the camera zoomed in and
you were one of those people and you
were talking to the camera. Or maybe you
were going to hide and play
hide-and-seek in different areas of the
gym. If you own a retail space or like a
brickandmortar business, you could hide
in different areas of the business and
people would expect you to be hiding in
one location, but really you're hiding
in a different location. And what it's
ultimately doing is getting people to
look around the space and kind of shop
with their eyes. If you're someone who
works for themselves or you work from
home, I think that this could be a super
creative way to give us a little house
tour or an office tour or just to show
us a little bit more about you behind
the scenes and what it's like for you to
work from home because again, we're
getting to look around your space and
it's a very creative and engaging way.
And it's kind of a gamification as well
because we're playing the game of
hideand-seek with you. All right, my
fifth and final viral reel idea is what
I call the anti- trend. And the anti-
trend is essentially taking whatever is
blowing up, whatever is super popular,
whatever you see, everyone else is using
this audio. Everyone else is making this
style of video and you're going to do
the opposite or you're going to
reference that video and you're going to
talk about how you're not doing it. I'll
give you three examples. Number one is
one that I do almost every time
something is going viral, which is
giving an award, giving a prize or a
trophy to whoever hasn't used that
audio. Whenever there is a new super
popular trend, I upcycle this video,
which spoiler alert is actually recorded
in the summer of 2024, and I just reuse
it. I put some new text about whatever
the new trend is. And almost every time
this anti- trend goes viral. Another
example is from my friend Jeff, who you
should definitely check out his
Instagram. He's a great branding expert
himself, and he took the popular anxiety
trend that was taking the world by storm
a few months ago, and he cut off the
audio and said, "Hey, listen. We don't
need to speak more anxiety around here.
We don't need to profess anxiety. We've
got enough anxiety." And I thought it
was a really funny way of taking a viral
popular trend that everyone is kind of
paying attention to and turning it on
its head. And then the third example
that I have for you is from Colleen who
runs another awesome Instagram account,
No Shame Sales Game. And her anti-trend
was in response to a popular trend where
people were saying, "I met my younger
self for coffee." And they talked about
the differences between their younger
self and their current self. maybe their
current self showed up on time, but
their younger self was 15 minutes late
for coffee and walked in with a stain on
their shirt, whatever. And she did this
anti- trend where she said, "If you're
meeting your younger self for coffee,
then you're probably having a psychotic
break." So again, it's funny, it's
lighthearted, it's poking fun at what
everyone else is doing, what's super
trendy and popular, and it can allow you
to really stand out and differentiate
yourself while still participating in
the trend that everyone else is paying
attention to. Now, if you want some more
tips for sustainably boosting your views
on your Instagram reels, we did an
episode a few months ago on exactly
that, sharing all of the strategies and
best practices for sustainably, reliably
getting more views on your reel. So,
I'll make sure to link that up up here
or down in the show notes below. And as
always, until next time, happy
networking.